CSCI 5115 Project Ideas
=======================

Section 2 - Group 8
-------------------

Thomas Juszczyk juszc004

Yashasvi Sriram Patkuri patku001

Fatima Rahman rahma176

Jiajun Tang tang0594

Lee Wintervold winte413

Idea 1 - Canvas calendar improved
---------------------------------

**Description**: The goal of this app is to improve the
interaction/usefulness of the assignments in the Canvas calendar.
Currently, the assignment calendar in Canvas only supports two states
for assignments: Assigned/Graded and does not notify you of upcoming
deadlines. The app we create would allow for more states to be tracked
(Assigned/In progress/Submitted/Graded) and would be capable of giving
weekly summaries of deadlines/readings to complete, and customizable
notifications for unsubmitted assignments (day-of and hour before due,
etc).

**Pros**

-   Keeping track of work done is a real problem that we can solve for
    > people, and certainly have easily accessible Canvas users

**Cons**

-   Requires instructors to use Canvas and set important
    > assignment/reading events

-   Unclear if a solely mobile app is the best for interacting with
    > Canvas

Idea 2 - Pet exchange app
-------------------------

**Description**: The goal of this app is to make it possible for the pet
owners to exchange their pets with others for a period so that they
could have fantastic experience about different pets like a cat owner
can try keeping a dog, a spider owner can try keeping a snack with the
help of each other. In this app, there would be many posts of the user’s
pet exchange requirement. People can comment on these posts so that they
can communicate with the post owner to find if they are the ideal pet
exchange company. If they have matched with each other, they can sign
the paper online and change their pet by the way they like.

**Pros**

-   The idea is innovative and seems like fun.

**Cons**

-   No evidence for people who own pets do/want to actually do this.

-   Have some problems with how to keep a new kind of pet. Pet may get
    > sick or even die.

Idea 3 - Apartment & Roommate finder
------------------------------------

**Description**: Every year new students arrive at the campus of UMN.
Invariably every one of them searches for a room/dorm to live in and
roommates to share the living space with. But there is no good enough
portal/interface using which an individual can get this done. Most of
this communication is done via facebook pages/roommate spreadsheets
which is horrible to organize and stay updated with. Moreover, most
houses do not register on traditional apartment websites and have to be
contacted via Craigslist or a similar medium. This is a real and
recurring problem that can be solved with a system specifically built
for this. The users are the people who look for apartments and people
who lease them. The primary features of the app will include searching
for apartments and roommates based on the preferences of the user. We
also think that letting people (even non-leasors) add new apartments and
letting others cross-verify is a good way to increase the number of
available apartments leasors.

**Pros**

-   Solves a real problem

-   A lot of room for improvement

**Cons**

-   The validity of the apartment added by non-lessors has to be
    > verified by cross-voting and even then it is difficult to
    > determine it with a good level of confidence.

Idea 4 - Similar interest friend finder
---------------------------------------

**Description**: University students may want to go somewhere and do
something with people who have similar interests, like going to watch an
action movie together, trying Southeast Asian food, going to the library
and study the history of Roman together. Some of these activities may be
hard to find someone as accompany, which is the problem that this app
will solve. In this app, there are many virtual rooms with specific
topics, people who are interested in the topic will ‘enter’ the room and
discuss with room members. When they decided when and where of the
event, they could close the room and turn it into an activity group.
Then they can meet and have fun together on the day they all agreed
with. Each room has tags for the convenience of searching. The room
owner can edit the room name and tag at any time. Only students who are
at the same university can be in the same room.

**Pros**

-   A useful app for students who desire to find schoolmates who have
    > similar interests and hang out with them.

-   Students can also explore their interests in the app by look at the
    > room list and enter it.

**Cons**

-   Group members may not get along well because they don’t know each
    > other well.

-   It is hard to make sure these activities are legal because the
    > student may use argot.

Idea 5 - Emergency crime app
----------------------------

**Description**: Whenever someone is a victim of a crime or witnesses it
the first thing they probably do is to call 911. While this suffices on
most occasions sometimes there might not be enough time or proper
circumstance to make that call. For example in a violent assault or car
crash at an isolated area. To solve this an app can be made to check the
safety periodically and use hardware button clicks to place emergency
calls/messages.

**Pros**

-   There can be an improvement in public safety

-   More intuitive way than clicking buttons on-screen few times

**Cons**

-   Not all people have mobile phones

-   Not all people have smartphones

-   There are some existing apps

Idea 6 - Tutor match
--------------------

**Description**: This app aims to match people up with the tutors best
suited to them, similar to Tinder in its swipe left and the right
layout. However, unlike Tinder that shows you, everyone that is
available to you, it makes matches based on preferences and user
information you input. For example, you could input that you’re looking
for a tutor in Physics that can meet up on Wednesdays at 6 while
inputting that you can tutor someone in English on Fridays at 3. These
are basic specifications (and you can create even more
requirements/details in your profile if need be). This is useful for
academic purposes and is best suited for users with busy schedules who
may not have time to come to office hours or simply are hard-pressed to
find the right tutor for them. The main demographic would consist of
college students.

**Pros**

-   Works across multiple college campuses; can connect users who may
    > not have crossed paths before

-   Incorporates the idea of “matching” yourself to the ideal tutor
    > instead of having the user use whatever TAs/tutors are available
    > to them at the moment

**Cons**

-   Too similar to Tinder in UI/concept

-   Many colleges already offer tutoring services — what would make this
    > stand out?

Idea 7 - Better metro transit/alert app
---------------------------------------

**Description**: The goal of this app is to better inform public
transportation users of delays for their route, and inform them when to
depart. A user would input the destination they want to reach by a
certain time, and the app will track the real-time state of the transit
system and the user’s present location to notify the user when they
should depart and what their route will be.

**Pros**

-   This saves time for public transit users, and there are lots of
    > users

**Cons**

-   May be hard to pull needed realtime data from metro transit, likely
    > complex implementation for realtime prediction of transport time
    > if there are delays

Idea 8 - Real-time music collaboration
--------------------------------------

**Description**: A shared music playlist app, designed for real-time
collaboration. A “host” would be able to set up a “room” where users can
join and add music to a playlist in real-time. They could also vote to
skip or promote specific songs. Designed for party scenarios where music
that everyone agrees on gets promoted. The design should promote ease of
use, as few clicks as possible to participate, easy signup and room
joining, etc. There is lots of information that can be useful in an app
like this: a list of users, chat rooms, a list of music, song voting
statistics, song searches, etc. We could come up with multiple designs
to see which features users use the most in order to understand how to
use the screen real estate most effectively. We could also survey users
to find out which features are most important.

**Pros**

-   An app that many people find useful and can relate to

-   Similar apps exist but nothing built for semi-anonymous real-time
    > collaborative use cases, so there would be plenty of interfaces to
    > compare with

**Cons**

-   Some similar apps out there, even if there are none that have
    > implemented this entire feature set

-   Different users find different features important, and may not have
    > identical goals or use cases

Idea 9 - FPS Game groups
------------------------

**Description**: Right now there are few ways to coordinate grouping up
with friends to play video games. Often times not everyone has the same
game, the right number of people, or a compatible schedule. This app
would allow users to propose windows of time they are available to play
games and automatically get matched up with the correct number of
friends at times that work for everyone.

**Pros**

-   There isn’t a great solution out there already

-   The gamer community has plenty of users, all who probably relate to
    > the issue

**Cons**

-   The idea is kind of a “matching black box” meaning you just fill out
    > a form and it spits out matching information.

-   Not a lot of interesting things you can do with the UI/UX of this
    > application since it’s basically just a form you would fill out

Idea 10 - Food/restaurant app
-----------------------------

**Description:** Many users looking for places to eat, especially
college students, face indecision when it comes to the literally dozens
of choices they have. This app aims to reduce time spent making that
decision, narrowing down the options based on preferences the users
input (ex. what type of food they want to eat, price range, distance) as
well as past establishments the user has eaten at and enjoyed. A social
component could also be introduced based on recommendations made by
friends, deals restaurants offer if the user goes there x amount of
times or recommends them to x amount of friends.

**Pros**

-   Solves a common, widespread issue

-   Makes recommendations based on restaurants/food you’ve indicated you
    > like; haven’t heard of many apps that do this

-   Social component

-   Can partner with other apps like Pocket Points, etc

**Cons**

-   Similar to Yelp; lots of competing apps

| **Top 3 Votes**                 | Lee | Fatima | Tommy | Yash | Tom |
|---------------------------------|-----|--------|-------|------|-----|
| Idea 1 - canvas calendar        | 3   |        |       |      |     |
| Idea 2 - pet exchange           |     |        |       |      |     |
| Idea 3 - apartment finder       | 1   | 1      | 3     | 1    | 2   |
| Idea 4 - interest/friend finder |     |        | 1     | 2    |     |
| Idea 5 - emergency crime app    |     |        |       | 3    |     |
| Idea 6 - tutor tinder           |     |        |       |      | 3   |
| Idea 7 - better metro alerts    |     |        |       |      |     |
| Idea 8 - real-time music collab | 2   | 2      | 2     |      | 1   |
| Idea 9 - gaming group creator   |     |        |       |      |     |
| Idea 10 - food/restaurant app   |     | 3      |       |      |     |
