Tasks
=====

Apartment Search (Task 1)
-------------------------

1.  Search apartments using text (street name, city etc..) and filters

2.  Customize Apt search results

3.  View apartment

John Doe is a student at the U and is looking for an apartment.

He’s been using sites like Zillow and Facebook for the task but is
struggling to find a platform that provides consolidated listings and
powerful yet intuitive search experience.

John decides to try out ApartMate app. Once he creates an account and
signs in, he is greeted with a list of apartments.

There is a floating button that shows the most frequently used operation
of all viz. The search. On pressing that button he is taken into another
screen with a text bar and a few filters. Each of these inputs are used
to filter listings. Upon changing any input, live feedback on the number
of results with current search state is shown.

Let’s say it’s very important that John finds a place with a fridge and
laundry room included because he doesn’t want to go to a laundromat
elsewhere and pay. Here he can alter the filters to adjust for his
needs. Once all filters are set he presses the tick floating button to
apply the search. Then he is taken into a screen with apartment listings
that match the search filters.

But now John sees a lot of information on every search result card. He
is not concerned with all the information on the card. He has a life and
needs to glance over a lot of apartment listings quickly. To do this he
customizes his search results by hitting the three dots in the top right
and changing what apartment details are displayed. He doesn’t care too
much about security features, but a location relative to his classes is
very important to him, so he adjusts the search result layout
accordingly.

Now that John has finalized a select few apartments, he wants to know
more about each one of them. So upon clicking on any apartment search
result, he’s presented with all details of the apartment like name,
address, amenities, features, a list of reviews, and even a video tour.
Using these details John can now pick his final selection.

Apartment Contribution (Task 2)
-------------------------------

1.  Create an apartment

2.  Edit apartment

3.  Leveling up and Getting verified and giving ratings

4.  Documentation page (community not an institution)

John comes to know that his friend’s apartment is quite nice and had he
known about this earlier he would have moved into this. But he learns
that that particular apartment is not posted anywhere online and his
friend caught the deal in-person. John being a good human being, creates
a new listing with the details of his friend’s apartment in ApartMate
app. He knows that anybody who wants an apartment in this area will
surely look at this listing and would likely choose this apartment. He
also knows that by doing this eventually he will be benefited as this
way all apartments will be consolidated by many people and the next time
he wont miss such a good apartment. This way he has contributed to the
apartmate community.

One day John’s friend Sam who learnt about the apartmate community saw
that his apartment detail was wrong in the apartmate database. He now
graciously edits the apartment listing details by hitting the pencil
button. This way Sam has contributed to all the people who shall
consider leasing a unit in his apartment building.

John and Sam have been contributing to the apartmate community by
creating and updating apartments and helping many people who are in
their apartment hunt. This doesn’t just improve their karma :P. This
also increases their apartmate level.

When a user reaches a certain level he/she can apply for verification.
In the verification process their creations and corrections are randomly
manually cross-checked for correctness. If the contributions are valid
then they get verified. Once a user is verified he has the power to give
reviews for apartments.

John has reached the sufficient level and has applied for verification.
His verification request was approved. Now he is a trusted member of the
community and has the power to give ratings to apartments.

The main design choice made here is that listings data is open to
public. This way apartmate becomes a community rather than an
institution. The main tradeoff here is the validity of data in a source
open to all. But from our formative work we learnt that availability of
consolidated information at one place far exceeded the validity concerns
for most users. Even then we implement the verification system and
ratings for apartment as a measure to control fraud.

This process is documented in the help page of the app for reference

Roommates (Task 3)
------------------

1.  Edit user profile

2.  Search for users using user profile

3.  Edit user search using filters

4.  Chat with people

Now John realizes to match his price point, he might want to find
roommates. Before doing so, he updates his profile and preferences. He
adjusts his max budget price to 500 and changes his preferences so now
he wants a private bedroom. Based on his preferences the filters
automatically updates. After he going to the filter page and press the
search button, a list of users are displayed with the top one being the
closest match.

He now wants to change these filters to meet his needs. He presses the
clear button in the filters page and sets these filters manually. He
only wants to room with fellow undergraduates. He shifts things around
so his search results only show users ages 18-22. He wants his search
results to show users with a car, because they could give John rides.
There are innumerable ways he can use filters.

Like with apartment search result layout John can also customize user
search result layout, because well he has a life :P. Once after he finds
a suitable roommate he can tap on the search result to view all that
person’s details. In the user details page itself there is a button to
send directly send a message to the user and start the conversation
about possible roommates.
