**Consent Form**

**Apartment and Roommate Matching App**

You are invited to be in a class project investigation of: Apartment and
Roommate Matching App. We ask that you read this form and ask any
questions you may have before agreeing to take part. This class project
is being conducted by the following University of Minnesota students:

Yashasvi Sriram Patkuri (<u>patku001@umn.edu</u>)

Tom Juszczyk (<u>juszc004@umn.edu</u>)

Fatima Rahman (<u>rahma176@umn.edu</u>)

Jiajun Tang (<u>tang0594@umn.edu</u>)

Lee Wintervold (<u>winte413@umn.edu</u>)

**Procedures:**

You will be participating in a short (15-30) minute interview. One or
more researchers will ask questions and make notes. We would like to
record the audio of the interview to allow easier transcription; if you
are not comfortable with this, please inform the interviewer at this
time.

### **Risks and Benefits of Being in the Study:**

There are minimal risks to participating in this study. Any information
gathered will be used solely to guide the development of the app.

**Compensation:**

None.

**Confidentiality:**

We will not collect any information that will make it possible to trace
your participation back to you and will not share your participation
with anybody outside of the student project team. We will keep your
participation private to the extent allowable by law.

**Voluntary Nature of Project Participation:**

Participation in this project is voluntary. Your decision whether or not
to participate will not affect your current or future relations with the
University of Minnesota. If you decide to participate, you are free to
not answer any question or withdraw at any time without affecting those
relationships.

**Contacts and Questions:**

The students conducting this project are: Yashasvi Sriram Patkuri, Tom
Juszczyk, Fatima Rahman, Jiajun Tang, and Lee Wintervold. The faculty
member supervising this class project is: Dr. Loren Terveen. You may ask
any questions you have now. If you have questions later, **you are
encouraged** to contact him at Keller Hall (Office 5-211), 612 624-8310,
terveeen@umn.edu.

***You may keep this page for your records after signing and returning
the attached sheet.***

**Statement of Consent:**

I have read the attached information regarding the class project
Apartment and Roommate Matching App. I have asked questions and have
received answers. I consent to participate in this class project.

Signature:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Date: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Signature of
Investigator:\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Date: \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
